The Large Hadron Collider is the largest scientific experiment mankind ever
devised, and already the first period of data-taking was a tremendous success.
The accelerator, detector and computing Grid performance surpassed all expecta-
tions. Only 4 years after the start-up the first major milestone was reached:
Everybody who witnessed the discovery of a Higgs boson, the messenger of the
Brout–Englert–Higgs field, in the year 2012 and appreciates the importance of its
existence will certainly agree. The 2013 Nobel Prize in physics to Francois Englert
and Peter Higgs is a testimony to this breakthrough result. This discovery and many
other outstanding achievements of the LHC raise great hopes: The imminent restart
of the physics programme in 2015 will increase the sensitivity by an order of
magnitude while pushing the energy frontier to unprecedented values. We are
looking forward to unravelling new mysteries that the universe may have in store
for us.
Technologically, the LHC was—and continues to be—a significant challenge,
demanding numerous innovations and breakthroughs in areas so diverse as magnet
development, detector sensitivity and robustness, and large-scale computing—to
mention only a few. So far, these challenges have been well met, thanks to the
ingenuity and perseverance of the staff at CERN and at the many other institutions
around the world involved in the realisation of the LHC and its detectors.
The LHC is not only a scientific and technological success: Rarely before has a
scientific endeavour raised so much public interest and has received so much
attention in the media. The LHC fascinates the young and the old alike, and it
increases the awareness for scientific and technical questions. The public at large is
convinced of the importance—and the rewards—of fundamental research for
today’s societies. It is my particular pleasure to see that it attracts pupils and
students to get involved with the natural sciences, a prerequisite to providing a next
generation of well-educated and responsible experts that can tackle the demanding
problems the twenty-first century will bring along.
